Trino Fest announcement blog (#417)
trinodb/trino.io: _posts/2023-03-31-announcing-trino-fest-2023.md

---
layout: post
title: "Announcing Trino Fest 2023"
author: "Brian Olsen"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
image: /assets/blog/trino-fest-2023/trino-fest.png
---

Trino Fest 2023: Lakehouse Summer Camp

Get ready to kick off your summer with Commander Bun Bun at Trino Fest 2023!
This year's event is going virtual and will take place over two days, June 14th
and June 15th. The focus of the event will be on Trino as a data lakehouse query
engine, with discussions on new features and the ecosystem around Trino to

> support better data lakehouse management to keep up with data warehouses.

Author: oops that wasn't intentional

> Trino Fest 2023 is the new annual Summer event dedicated to all things Trino.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Trino Fest 2023 is the new annual summer event dedicated to all things Trino.
```

Building on the success of last year’s [Cinco de Trino]
({% post_url 2022-05-17-cinco-de-trino-recap %}), we’re excited to bring the
community together once again to explore the latest trends and innovations in

> Trino and data lakehouse management. With a focus on educating, community

Reviewer: education

collaboration, and inspiration, Trino Fest 2023 will be a valuable experience

> for anyone interested in lowering their analytics costs while still maintaining

Reviewer: in improving their data and analytics platform.

lets get rid of the cost only angle and the warehouse angle here.

> the features from a data warehouse. We hope to see you there!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the features from a data warehouse. We hope to see you there as attendee, speaker, or sponsor!
```

<!--more-->

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Call for speakers
```

> [Call for papers (CFP)](https://sessionize.com/trino-fest-2023) is now open,

Reviewer: Reword to avoid CFP

and we invite you to submit a talk if you have an interesting perspective on
Trino. We're particularly interested in talks related to:

> * data lake use cases, such as data lake architecture

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Data lake and lakehouse use cases, architectures and experiences
```

* Apache Iceberg
* Delta Lake
* Hudi

> * industry use cases for Trino

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Industry use cases for Trino
```

> * query federation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Query federation and other use cases with many data sources
```

> * data governance with Trino

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Data governance with Trino
```

> * SQL in Trino that enables data warehouse features on the data lake

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SQL with Trino
```

> * ETL/ELT/batch query processing using fault tolerance-execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ETL/ELT/batch query processing
```

> * tools in the Trino and data lake ecosystem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Other tools and integrations in the Trino ecosystem
```

> The CFP closes on April 28th, so be sure to submit your talk soon!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The call for speakers closes on the 28th of April 2023, so be sure to submit your talk soon!
```

> Aside from the new title, this year's Trino Fest will differ from last years,

Reviewer: Need title above this section

short conference in a few ways. We're featuring more talks from Trino

> practitioners, the event will be divided into two days to avoid the death march

Reviewer: ```suggestion
practitioners, the event will run over two shorterdays to avoid the death march
```

> of talks, and there will be more Summer, lakehouse, and camping puns. Of course,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of talks, and there will be more summer, lakehouse, and camping puns. Of course,
```

> there will be continued use of the Trinoritaville song. Whether you're just

Reviewer: link to the youtube video

getting started with Trino or you're a seasoned pro, there will be something for
everyone at Trino Fest.

Trino was [built from the beginning to run on Hive]({% post_url

> 2020-10-20-intro-to-hive-connector %}), so Trino running on a data lake is

Reviewer: what do you mean ... Hive usage is a data lake..

Author: I mean Hive is like the OG data lake. It was one of the early big data query engine abstractions that build on a separate storage system. Data lake to me is just distributed storage that takes any variety and data and implies a schema over it to make it queryable. That is what Hive was and what Trino is today.

simply the evolution from its flagship use case. Topics will include the latest
features and improvements to Trino that make it an even better choice for data
lakehouse management. You'll hear from speakers who are using Trino in
innovative ways, and who can provide valuable insights and tips for managing
your own data lakehouse.

As always, you can connect with other members of the Trino community, share

> ideas and experiences, and learn from each other. Going with the chill Summer

Reviewer: Remove this sentence and combine following paragraph with this one

theme, there will be plenty of time to have fun and relax too!

> So mark your calendar for Trino Fest 2023: Lakehouse Summer Camp, and get ready

Reviewer: Everything after "mark your calendar" is a rehash .. remove all that and move this down after sponsors to use as summary

Author: That's intentional, I'll move this to the bottom that way if people get to the bottom they are right next to the register button.

for a two-day event that will get you diving into the deep end of the data lake.
[Registration is open now](https://www.starburst.io/info/trinofest), and [the
CFP](https://sessionize.com/trino-fest-2023) closes on April 28th, so be sure to
sign up and submit your talk soon!

> If you're interested in sponsoring Trino Fest 2023, we'd love to hear from you!

Reviewer: Section about this

Sponsors

or so

The call for speakers closes on April 28th, so be sure to submit your talk soon!

## What's new this year?

Aside from the new title, this year's Trino Fest will differ from last years,
short conference in a few ways. We're featuring more talks from Trino
practitioners, the event will run over two shorter days to avoid the death march
of talks, and there will be more summer, lakehouse, and camping puns. Of course,
there will be continued use of the [Trinoritaville song
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kfJ63DNbAuI&list=PLFnr63che7wYFsknFAqisURvfm96rW0Dr&index=4).
Whether you're just getting started with Trino or you're a seasoned pro, there
will be something for everyone at Trino Fest.

## What is Trino Fest versus Trino Summit

Trino was [built from the beginning to run on Hive]({% post_url
2020-10-20-intro-to-hive-connector %}), so Trino running on a data lake is
simply the evolution from its flagship use case. Trino fest covers the latest
features and improvements to Trino that make it an even better choice for
data lakehouse management. You'll hear from speakers who are using Trino in
innovative ways, and who can provide valuable insights and tips for managing

> your own data lakehouse. Going with the chill Summer theme, there will be plenty

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your own data lakehouse. Going with the chill summer theme, there will be plenty
```

of time to have fun and relax too!

## Sponsor Trino Fest

If you're interested in sponsoring Trino Fest 2023, we'd love to hear from you!
Sponsoring the event is a great way to get your brand in front of a highly
engaged audience of Trino enthusiasts and data professionals. Your support will
help make the event a success, and in return, we'll offer a range of benefits,
such as logo placement on our website, social media shoutouts, and more. To

> learn more about sponsoring Trino Fest 2023, please reach out to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
learn more about sponsoring Trino Fest 2023, reach out to
```

[events@starburst.io](mailto:events@starburst.io).

## See you there

Mark your calendar for Trino Fest 2023: Lakehouse Summer Camp, and get ready
for a two-day event that will get you diving into the deep end of the data lake.
[Registration is open now](https://www.starburst.io/info/trinofest), and [the

> CFS](https://sessionize.com/trino-fest-2023) closes on April 28th, so be sure to

Reviewer: call for speakers
